# The End User (Stakeholders)

In the case of a forum like Reddit, as evident from the
[above interviews](#interviews), the end user / audience of a project like this
can be wide. For example, on Reddit, there are sub forums ranging from politics
to comedy to programming. This also means that the potential target audience is
large, as anyone that wants to visit the site to read or engage in discussion
can.

As Corum aims to be similar to Reddit, it will likely foster the same type of
content on it. Unlike forums that are designed for a single topic or purpose,
Reddit, and therefore Corum, is designed to have anything on it. This means that
whatever people want to talk about on it, they can. (This could be sharing news,
collaborating on research, or just chatting to each other.)

The reason why an end user would use Corum over a site such as Reddit could be
for many reasons. For example, it could be that they like the democratic system
of moderation as discussed, or that they prefer the modern experience that Corum
will provide.

Also, there are two different types of users that could use Corum; the users
that regularly visit and actively engage in discussion, and the users that will
only ever visit the site when directed from a search engine. In the following
sub sections, I will outline what Corum should do to try and cater to the needs
of these two types of users.

## Users That Have Different Interests

Users of the site will have different interests, which means that Corum needs to
work well for all, and the site should not be designed for only one type of
content. **Good computer literacy should not be a given**, so the interface
should be layed out in a simple manner. Colour should also be kept to a minimum
to keep the site looking neutral.

## Users That Use the Forum Differently

For users that have never visited or rarely visit the site, the UI (User
Interface) and UX (User Experience) shouldn't be surprising so that this type of
user can get whatever information they are looking for quickly and efficiently.
Also, the site should work equally well for returning, regular users. This means
that the site should keep a similar structure and look throughout, and should
not get in the way of the user.
