# Research into Existing Systems

## [Reddit](https://reddit.com) (Proprietary [as of September 2017](#being-open))

![Reddit Front Page](images/reddit.png)

**Reddit** is a very popular forum site that is home to a wide range of topics,
where people can post links to other websites, or just have discussions actually
on the site. Users can up-vote or down-vote posts if they like or dislike them.
This is where the inspiration of Corum came from, however I thought that the
vote that the user is given on each post could be given more value.

As a regular reddit user, I have had plenty of time to get a grasp of its
features and what it feels like to use. As Reddit is a major inspiration for
this project, a lot of its features will be borrowed. This is on purpose, as the
target audience of Corum will be mainly those who have already had experience
with Reddit. This will mean that it will feel familiar and it will be easy to
get started.

While the idea of Reddit is quite simple, in my opinion, and others (as shown by
the [interviews](#interviews) with fellow Reddit users), the user interface is
cluttered, with many features that are rarely used such as the amount of people
online etc. Corum will strive to be a simpler version of Reddit.

## [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/) (Proprietary)

![Hacker News Front Page](images/hackernews.png)

**Hacker News** is a similar site to Reddit, however it is a lot simpler. There
are no sub-forums, as it is a site dedicated only for computer science related
topics such as programming. The user interface is very simple (and quite dated
in my opinion), which means that it doesn't get in the users way. However, I
believe that it is too simple, and too niche (as it is only for programmers).

I believe that there is space in the forum software landscape for a site that is
simpler than Reddit, but one with more features than Hacker News. This is where
Corum could fit in.

## [phpBB](https://www.phpbb.com/) (Open source)

![Solus' Forum Front Page](images/solusforum.png)

**phpBB** has different goals than Corum, Reddit and Hacker News. Instead of
being designed to run from one website, it is designed to be used by anyone who
wants to setup their own forum. An example of where phpBB is deployed is at
[Solus' Forum](https://solus-project.com/forums/). This can be seen when looking
at the pages footer.

phpBB can be themed so that it can fit the style of any website it is being run
on. This means that the look or layout of phpBB isn't really an issue as it can
be easily altered. However, as Corum will be a more similar project to Reddit,
it does not need this extra complexity of being able to change its looks. I like
the simplicity of Solus' forum theme, and Corum will take some inspiration from
its looks.
