# Post Page

## Client Side

Other than from the url bar of the browser, the user can access a post by
following a link provided on the subforum page.

As shown by this pages route, it has two path variables, `:subforum` and
`:post`. The client will use these variables to construct a GraphQL query that
will be sent to Corum's API. It is important to note that a post may only belong
to a single subforum.

The post page will contain:

* The post title
* The username of the post's author
* The time the post was created at (In the format `HH:mm - DD/MM/YY`)
  * `H` = Hours
  * `m` = Minutes
  * `D` = Day
  * `M` = Month
  * `Y` = Year
* The main body / the content of the post
* The current vote status of the post. The number will be:
  * Green when the vote is positive (>= 1)
  * Red when the vote is negative (<= -1)
  * White when the vote is neutral (0)
* An upvote and a downvote button
* A comment section that will contain:
  * A title of 'comments' with a count of the current amount of comments
  * A list of comments. Each comment will contain:
    * The content of the comment
    * The author of the comment
* A 'New Comment' section that will contain:
  * A text area to entered the content of the new comment
    * This will need to be validated so it cannot be empty, and possibly not too
      long
  * A 'Post Comment' button that will submit the comment

If the user is not logged in, the following will happen to the page:

* The upvote and downvote button will be greyed out as only logged in users can
  vote
* The 'New Comment' section will be completely removed, as only logged in users
  can post comments

## Server Side

The CRUD API generated by graphcool exposes a way to retrieve a single item of
data by passing a parameter that identifies an item of data to be unique. For
the post page, we will want to retrieve a single item of data of type `Post`, a
single post. The only field on the Post type that can be used to uniquely
identify a post is the `id` field. This is easy enough to retrieve as the posts
id is the path variable `:post`. From having the post's id, the client can now
retrieve all of the data needed to view a post.
